docs(seqera-ai): align Enterprise Co-Scientist docs for 26.1 (#1381)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-enterprise_docs/enterprise/install-seqera-ai.md

### Configure direct Anthropic API access

Use direct Anthropic API access only when your organization has approved Anthropic-hosted Claude models. Set the Anthropic API key from a Secret and disable Bedrock inference:

```yaml
agent-backend:
  anthropicApiKeyExistingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
  extraEnvVars:
    - name: USE_BEDROCK_INFERENCE
      value: "false"
```

Documentation search embeddings are independent from chat inference. Keep Titan embeddings configured through Bedrock when you use improved documentation search.

### Configure AgentCore sandbox sessions

If your deployment uses AWS Bedrock AgentCore for sandboxed execution, set the AgentCore runtime ARN:

```yaml
agent-backend:
  bedrockAgentCoreArn: arn:aws:bedrock-agentcore:<region>:<account-id>:runtime/<runtime-id>
```

If the `bedrockAssumeRoleArn` value is defined, agent backend will first assume the role before interacting with the agent core runtime.

## Configure the portal web interface

The portal web chart serves the browser interface and proxies requests to the agent backend. It authenticates users through Seqera Platform.

```yaml
portal-web:
  enabled: true
```

> Expose MCP, agent backend, and portal web through the chart ingress only if you use Kubernetes Ingress. If you use the Gateway API or another network layer, configure that layer instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The MCP, agent backend and portal web Helm charts provide the option to define Kubernetes ingresses: other methods to expose the services can be used, e.g. via the `extraDeploy` resource.
```

## Connect the Seqera CLI to Co-Scientist

Install the CLI from the official [`seqera` npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/seqera):

```bash
npm install -g seqera
```

Point the CLI at your Enterprise deployment:

```bash
export SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN=https://platform.example.com/api
export SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL=https://ai-api.platform.example.com
seqera ai
```

Set `SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID` only if your deployment uses a CLI OAuth client ID other than the default `seqera_ai_cli`.

For automated environments, use a Platform access token instead of browser login. Current CLI builds still require `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN` so the CLI can target the correct Enterprise Platform authority.

```bash
export SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN=https://platform.example.com/api
export TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN=<PLATFORM_ACCESS_TOKEN>
export SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL=https://ai-api.platform.example.com
seqera ai
```

Set `SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID` only for OAuth deployments that use a non-default CLI client ID. `SEQERA_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN` are supported for token-based authentication.

## Usage and cost

> Enterprise deployments do not use Seqera Cloud credit balances or the Cloud credit request flow. Usage and inference costs are managed by your organization through the configured inference provider, such as AWS Bedrock or Anthropic API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usage and inference costs are managed by your organization through the configured inference provider, such as AWS Bedrock or Anthropic API.
```

## Configure the agent backend

The agent backend needs MySQL, Redis or Valkey, inference provider access, MCP connectivity, and a stable token encryption key. In this example sensitive values (db and redis passwords, token encryption key, etc) are stored in a kubernetes secret named `seqera-ai-secrets`, which needs to already exist before the chart installation, either created manually or with automated secret extraction tools (like External Secrets, not covered in this tutorial).

```yaml
agent-backend:
  enabled: true

  database:
    host: mysql.example.com
    name: agent_backend
    username: agent_backend
    existingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
    existingSecretKey: AGENT_BACKEND_DB_PASSWORD

  redis:
    host: redis.example.com
    db: 0
    existingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
    existingSecretKey: AGENT_BACKEND_REDIS_PASSWORD

  tokenEncryptionKeyExistingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
```

Use the `redis` values block for Redis-compatible services, including Valkey.

### Configure AWS Bedrock

Configure Bedrock so Claude inference and Titan embeddings run in your AWS account. Bedrock is the recommended Enterprise configuration.

```yaml

> agent-backend:

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure specifying `agent-backend` may be misleading to users, and I need to test what happens when the same map is specified multiple times, does it augment the previous one or overwrite it?

Reviewer: @bebosudo, any update on this? :D

Reviewer 2: I removed the repeated `agent-backend:` in the separate code blocks, now it's a single one showing off how to set up the db, redis and bedrock. There's a separate code block to show how to enable anthropic, without repeating the `agent-backend:` key.

  bedrockAssumeRoleArn: arn:aws:iam::<account-id>:role/<bedrock-access-role>
  bedrockAnthropicModel: arn:aws:bedrock:<region>:<account-id>:inference-profile/<profile-name>

  embeddings:
    bedrock:
      region: eu-west-2
      modelId: amazon.titan-embed-text-v2:0
      dimensions: "1024"
```

Use `bedrockAssumeRoleArn` when the agent backend pod must assume a role for Bedrock inference, Bedrock embeddings, or AgentCore access. Leave it empty when the pod already has direct AWS credentials for the target account.

### Configure direct Anthropic API access

Use direct Anthropic API access only when your organization has approved Anthropic-hosted Claude models. Set the Anthropic API key from a Secret and disable Bedrock inference:

```yaml
agent-backend:
  anthropicApiKeyExistingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
  extraEnvVars:
    - name: USE_BEDROCK_INFERENCE
      value: "false"
```

> Documentation search embeddings are independent from chat inference. Keep Titan embeddings configured through Bedrock when you use improved documentation search.

Reviewer 2: Adding this note here as a reminder to update the docs after we update the helm charts and define the inference provider and documentation index user-interface (i.e. there should be no need to specify values via `extraEnvVars`). cc @endre-seqera

Reviewer 2: the chart has been updated, let me update the docs now

Reviewer 2: docs updated, let me know how it looks

### Configure AgentCore sandbox sessions

If your deployment uses AWS Bedrock AgentCore for sandboxed execution, set the AgentCore runtime ARN:

```yaml
agent-backend:
  bedrockAgentCoreArn: arn:aws:bedrock-agentcore:<region>:<account-id>:runtime/<runtime-id>
```

## Configure the portal web interface

> The portal web chart serves the browser interface and proxies requests to the agent backend. It derives Platform OIDC settings from the Platform domain and uses the fixed Enterprise client values required by the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The portal web chart serves the browser interface and proxies requests to the agent backend. It authenticates users through Seqera Platform.
```

I don't think the second part of the sentence adds value?

```yaml
portal-web:
  enabled: true
```

> Expose MCP, agent backend, and portal web through the chart ingress only if you use Kubernetes Ingress. If you use the Gateway API or another network layer, configure that layer instead.

Reviewer 2: This sentence should go at the top of the document probably, and made less redundant possibly, something like "The MCP, agent backend and portal web Helm charts provide the option to define kubernetes ingresses: other methods to expose the services can be used, e.g. via the `extraDeploy` resource".

The chart sets:

| Environment variable | Value |
| --- | --- |
| `SEQERA_PLATFORM_API_URL` | `http://<global.platformServiceAddress>:<global.platformServicePort>` |
| `SEQERA_PLATFORM_APP_URL` | `https://<global.platformExternalDomain>` |
| `SEQERA_AGENT_BACKEND_URL` | `https://<global.agentBackendDomain>` |
| `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN` | `https://<global.platformExternalDomain>/api` |

Set optional observability or feature flag variables with `portal-web.extraEnvVars` only if your Enterprise environment uses them.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

No need to specify the env vars.
The second sentence doesn't provide any variable and may be misleading to enterprise users.

## Install or upgrade

Run Helm with your Platform values and Co-Scientist overrides:

```bash
helm upgrade --install seqera oci://public.cr.seqera.io/charts/platform \
  --namespace seqera \
  --values values.yaml
```

After installation, verify the pods are ready:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n seqera -l app.kubernetes.io/component=mcp
kubectl get pods -n seqera -l app.kubernetes.io/component=agent-backend
kubectl get pods -n seqera -l app.kubernetes.io/component=portal-web
```

## Verify the installation

Check the public endpoints:

```bash
curl -i https://ai-api.platform.example.com/health
curl -i https://mcp.platform.example.com/health
curl -i https://mcp.platform.example.com/service-info
curl -I https://ai.platform.example.com
```

The agent backend `/health` endpoint returns `200 OK` when the service starts and required dependencies are reachable. The MCP server exposes `/health` for reachability and `/service-info` for server and protocol information. The portal web interface does not expose a matching `/service-info` endpoint; use the HTTP response and browser sign-in test to confirm it is reachable.

> Open the portal web interface, for example `https://ai.platform.example.com`, and sign in with your Platform account. A successful login confirms that Platform OIDC, portal web, and the agent backend are connected.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open the portal web interface, for example `https://ai.platform.example.com`, and sign in with your Platform account. A successful login confirms that Platform OIDC, portal web, and the agent backend are connected. Start a chat in the interface to test the inference provider configuration; if sandboxing was configured, try asking a specific question that would trigger a sandbox execution, e.g. `What's the accurate square root of 98723516236?`, which should prompt the model to write a small Python script that should run in the sandbox.
```

cc @endre-seqera

## Connect the Seqera CLI to Co-Scientist

Install the CLI from the official [`seqera` npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/seqera):

```bash
npm install -g seqera
```

Point the CLI at your Enterprise deployment:

```bash
export SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN=https://platform.example.com/api
export SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL=https://ai-api.platform.example.com
seqera ai
```

Set `SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID` only if your deployment uses a CLI OAuth client ID other than the default `seqera_ai_cli`.

For automated environments, use a Platform access token instead of browser login. Current CLI builds still require `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN` so the CLI can target the correct Enterprise Platform authority.

```bash
export SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN=https://platform.example.com/api
export TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN=<PLATFORM_ACCESS_TOKEN>
export SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL=https://ai-api.platform.example.com
seqera ai
```

Set `SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID` only for OAuth deployments that use a non-default CLI client ID. `SEQERA_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN` are supported for token-based authentication.

## Usage and cost

> Enterprise deployments do not use Seqera Cloud credit balances or the Cloud credit request flow. Usage and inference costs are managed by your organization through the configured inference provider, such as AWS Bedrock or Anthropic API.

Reviewer 2: I don't think enterprise customers can install the AI apps on-prem and point them to platform cloud, so the mention of "seqera cloud credits" may not mean much?

> When `ORG_CREDITS_ENABLED=false` is set on the agent backend deployment, the CLI `/credits` command reports that usage is managed by your organization and directs users to their Seqera administrator.

Reviewer 2: I want to bring this value into the helm chart if it's important to enterprise customers so they won't need to play with `extraEnvVars`

Reviewer 2: this is now set to `false` for the new builds, let's remove it

```suggestion
```

---
title: "Seqera AI"
description: Install and configure Seqera AI for Seqera Platform Enterprise

> date created: "2026-05-04"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
date created: "2026-02-03"
```

---
title: "Seqera AI"
description: Install and configure Seqera AI for Seqera Platform Enterprise
date: "2026-05-04"
tags: [seqera-ai, installation, deployment, aws, helm]
---

:::caution

> Seqera AI requires Seqera Platform Enterprise 26.1 or later. The agent backend, MCP server, portal web interface, and CLI all use Platform OIDC features introduced in 26.1.

Reviewer 3: My understanding is that 25.3.6 supports the functionality too.

:::

Seqera AI adds Co-Scientist to Seqera Platform Enterprise. Deploy the agent backend, Seqera MCP server, and portal web interface alongside Platform to provide CLI and browser-based AI assistance for workflows, data, projects, and Platform resources.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- Seqera Platform Enterprise 26.1 or later deployed with the [Seqera Platform Helm chart](./platform-helm.md).
- Helm v3 and `kubectl` installed locally.

> - DNS names and TLS certificates for the Platform, agent backend, MCP server, and portal web interface hosts.

Reviewer 3: If created manually, where are they getting the FQDNs from? Having to look at the Helm chart config?

Reviewer 2: if the user wants to set up different values for the agent-backend or portal-web ingress endpoints than the default ones (`ai-api.{platformDomain}` or `ai.{platformDomain}`) they can specify the values in the `global` section of the chart

> - Access to pull the `agent-backend`, `mcp`, and `portal-web` images from `cr.seqera.io`, or mirrored copies in your internal registry.

Reviewer 3: Define repo? How does this align to the comments @bebosudo made today about the new proxy sites?

> - A MySQL 8 database for the agent backend. You can use the same MySQL instance as Platform with a separate database and user, or a separate instance.

Reviewer 3: Minor version? I assume we want 8.4?

> - A Redis 7 instance for agent backend task coordination.

Reviewer 3: Minor version? 7.2.x or something else? 
Talk about Valkey support?

- A stable Fernet token encryption key for the agent backend.

> - An inference provider account. Enterprise 26.1 supports Anthropic API and AWS Bedrock.

Reviewer 3: Link to these steps?

- If you use AWS Bedrock, access to the required Claude model or inference profile and the Amazon Titan embedding model.

> Generate the Fernet token encryption key:

Reviewer 3: I don't remember doing this on my deployment. Truly necessary?

Reviewer 2: No, as the chart explains, the key is generated automatically by the chart, but to avoid bricking the database in case the generated secret is nuked in any case, users are encouraged to specify it.

## Supported inference providers

Enterprise 26.1 supports the following Claude inference providers:

| Inference provider | Description |
| --- | --- |
| AWS Bedrock | Recommended for Enterprise deployments that need inference and embeddings to run in your AWS account. |
| Anthropic API | Direct access to Claude models through Anthropic API keys. Use this when your organization has approved direct Anthropic API access. |

## Components

| Component | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Agent backend | FastAPI and LangGraph service that orchestrates Co-Scientist sessions, validates Platform tokens, calls the inference provider, connects to MCP, and streams Server-Sent Events (SSE) to clients. |
| Seqera MCP server | Model Context Protocol server that exposes Platform-aware tools for workflows, datasets, compute environments, Wave, Hub, and nf-core. |
| Portal web interface | Browser interface for Co-Scientist chat, projects, thread history, report viewing, and related Platform workflows. |
| MySQL | Agent backend database for sessions, threads, token usage records, and conversation history. |
| Redis | Agent backend queue and coordination store. |

## Deployment topology

> The recommended Enterprise topology is a single Platform Helm release with the `mcp`, `agent-backend`, and `portal-web` subcharts enabled. In this topology, the Platform parent chart wires the MCP OIDC client registration token from the Platform backend Secret automatically.

Reviewer 3: Does this exist? As of last week, I used the charts individually. IIRC @bebosudo was thinking/working on an all-in-one?

Reviewer 2: The "ai" charts can already be installed as part of the platform main/umbrella chart.
An example is also available here: https://github.com/seqeralabs/helm-charts/blob/master/charts/platform/examples/seqera-co-scientist/README.md

  --namespace seqera \
  --values values.yaml
```

After installation, verify the pods:

```bash
kubectl get pods -n seqera -l app.kubernetes.io/component=mcp
kubectl get pods -n seqera -l app.kubernetes.io/component=agent-backend
kubectl get pods -n seqera -l app.kubernetes.io/component=portal-web
```

## Verify the installation

Check the public endpoints:

```bash
curl -i https://ai-api.platform.example.com/health
curl -i https://mcp.platform.example.com/health
curl -i https://mcp.platform.example.com/service-info
```

The agent backend health endpoint returns `200 OK` when the service starts and required dependencies are reachable. The MCP `/service-info` endpoint returns server and protocol information.

Open the portal web interface, for example `https://ai.platform.example.com`, and sign in with your Platform account. A successful login confirms that Platform OIDC, portal web, and the agent backend are connected.

## Connect the CLI to Seqera AI

Install the CLI:

```bash
npm install -g seqera
```

Point the CLI at your Enterprise deployment:

```bash
export SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN=https://platform.example.com/api

> export SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID=seqera_ai_cli

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

this doesn't seem to be needed

Reviewer 3: I added these 4 to my shell when trying to get the CLI working. TBD if they were all necessary:

```
- `SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL`
- `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN`
- `SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID`
- `TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN`
```

Reviewer: @bebosudo, are Graham's suggestions needed?

Reviewer 2: Only `SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL` and `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN` were needed when I tested it, the auth client id is already the default.
I think @vpatel85 was working on removing the need for `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN`, and in general he can provide more details on the status of the CLI than me

export SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL=https://ai-api.platform.example.com
seqera login
seqera ai
```

For automated environments, use a Platform access token instead of browser login:

```bash
export SEQERA_ACCESS_TOKEN=<PLATFORM_ACCESS_TOKEN>
export SEQERA_AI_BACKEND_URL=https://ai-api.platform.example.com
seqera ai
```

You only need `SEQERA_AUTH_DOMAIN` and `SEQERA_AUTH_CLI_CLIENT_ID` when using OAuth login. `SEQERA_ACCESS_TOKEN` and `TOWER_ACCESS_TOKEN` are supported for token-based authentication.

## Usage and cost

Enterprise deployments don't use Seqera Cloud credit balances or the Cloud credit request flow. Usage and inference costs are managed by your organization through the configured inference provider, such as Anthropic API or AWS Bedrock.

> When `ORG_CREDITS_ENABLED=false`, the CLI `/credits` command reports that usage is managed by your organization and directs users to their Seqera administrator.

Reviewer 3: `ORG_CREDITS_ENABLED` -- set where?

Reviewer 2: env var no longer needed for enterprise users, it's disabled by default

## Security considerations

- Use HTTPS for every exposed hostname.
- Store all sensitive values in Kubernetes Secrets.

> - Keep the agent backend token encryption key stable across upgrades. Changing it prevents the backend from decrypting existing encrypted values.

Reviewer 3: Which token is this?

Reviewer 2: it's the fernet key: https://github.com/seqeralabs/helm-charts/blob/cf378ec9256a7ddc637567de692cdc4116982ac1/charts/platform/charts/agent-backend/values.yaml#L191-L197

> - MCP uses the user's Platform token to call Platform APIs. The agent backend does not need a separate long-lived Platform service credential for user-scoped tool calls.

Reviewer 3: > The agent backend does not need a separate long-lived Platform service credential for user-scoped tool calls.

I don't 100% follow. Intended meaning?

> - Use separate MySQL credentials for the agent backend database.

Reviewer 3: Assumes it's piggybacking on the Platform instance?

Reviewer 2: no, agent-backend needs its own db instance

> - Enable Redis TLS and MySQL TLS when your managed services require encrypted connections.

Reviewer 3: See earlier comment about Valkey

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

- Seqera Platform Enterprise 25.3.6 or later deployed with the [Seqera Platform Helm chart](./platform-helm.md).
- Helm v3 and `kubectl` installed locally.
- DNS names and TLS certificates for the Platform, agent backend, MCP server, and portal web interface hosts. By default, the Helm charts derive `mcp.<platformExternalDomain>`, `ai-api.<platformExternalDomain>`, and `ai.<platformExternalDomain>`. Override `global.mcpDomain`, `global.agentBackendDomain`, and `global.portalWebDomain` if you use different hostnames.
- Access to pull the images required by the Helm charts from the configured container registry, or mirrored copies in your internal registry. See [Seqera container images](./advanced-topics/seqera-container-images.md) and [Mirroring container images](./configuration/mirroring.md).
- A MySQL 8.4 LTS-compatible database for the agent backend. You can use the same MySQL instance as Platform with a separate database and user, or a separate instance.
- A Redis 7.2-compatible or Valkey 7.2-compatible instance for agent backend task coordination.

> - A stable Fernet token encryption key for the agent backend if you use Kustomize or need encrypted values to survive chart upgrades. Helm-only installs can let the chart generate this key, but explicitly setting it avoids accidental regeneration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A stable Fernet token encryption key for the agent backend if you use Kustomize. Helm-only installs can let the chart generate this key, but explicitly setting it avoids accidental regeneration.
```

I'd say that most users don't want to brick their db when upgrading :)

Reviewer 2: Shall we move this point lower in the list so the instructions to generate the key come right after it?

| Inference provider | Description |
| --- | --- |
| AWS Bedrock | Recommended. Runs Claude inference in your AWS account through Bedrock. |
| Anthropic API | Uses Anthropic-hosted Claude models through an Anthropic API key. |

Documentation semantic search is configured separately from chat inference. Use Amazon Titan embeddings through Bedrock when you enable improved documentation search.

## Components

| Component | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Agent backend | FastAPI and LangGraph service that orchestrates Co-Scientist sessions, validates Platform tokens, calls the configured inference provider, connects to MCP, and streams Server-Sent Events (SSE) to clients. |
| Seqera MCP server | Model Context Protocol server that exposes Platform-aware tools for workflows, datasets, compute environments, Wave, Hub, and nf-core. |
| Portal web interface | Browser interface for Co-Scientist chat, projects, thread history, report viewing, and related Platform workflows. |
| MySQL | Agent backend database for sessions, threads, token usage records, and conversation history. |
| Redis or Valkey | Agent backend queue and coordination store. |

## Deployment topology

> The recommended Enterprise topology is a single Platform Helm release with the `mcp`, `agent-backend`, and `portal-web` subcharts enabled. The Platform Helm chart includes these subcharts, and the parent chart wires the MCP OIDC client registration token from the Platform backend Secret automatically.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The recommended Enterprise topology is using the `platform` Seqera Helm chart with the `mcp`, `agent-backend`, and `portal-web` subcharts enabled. The Platform Helm chart automatically wires the MCP OIDC client registration token from the Platform backend Secret, reducing the number of manual steps required.
```

> Use separate Helm releases only when your environment requires separate lifecycle ownership. If you deploy the charts separately, you must manually configure:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use separate Helm releases when you cannot convert your existing Platform installation to using the Helm chart or your environment requires separate lifecycle ownership. If you deploy the charts separately, you must manually configure:
```

> - `global.platformServiceAddress` and `global.platformServicePort` so the agent backend and portal web interface can reach the internal Platform backend service.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `global.platformServiceAddress` and `global.platformServicePort` on each AI chart so they can reach the Platform backend service using the cluster-internal endpoint.
```

> - `mcp.oidcToken.existingSecretName` and `mcp.oidcToken.existingSecretKey` with the same OIDC client registration token configured for the Platform backend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `oidcToken.existingSecretName` and `oidcToken.existingSecretKey` with the same OIDC client registration token configured for the Platform backend.
```

The syntax `mcp.` works when the values are deployed as part of the umbrella `platform` chart, for which `mcp` is a subchart and for which its values can be defined by prefixing them with the name of the chart `mcp.`
When deploying the MCP chart independently, we need to drop the `mcp.` prefix.

## Configure Helm values

Enable the three Co-Scientist subcharts in your Platform values file. This example uses the Platform parent chart, so the same Helm release also deploys or upgrades Platform. Include the required Platform values from your existing installation in addition to these Co-Scientist values.

```yaml
global:
  platformExternalDomain: platform.example.com
  mcpDomain: mcp.platform.example.com
  agentBackendDomain: ai-api.platform.example.com
  portalWebDomain: ai.platform.example.com

mcp:
  enabled: true

agent-backend:
  enabled: true

portal-web:
  enabled: true
```

For a complete example, see the [Co-Scientist Helm example](https://github.com/seqeralabs/helm-charts/tree/master/charts/platform/examples/seqera-ai).

## Configure MCP

When MCP runs under the Platform parent chart, leave `mcp.oidcToken` unset unless you need to override the default wiring. The parent chart sets it to the Platform backend Secret key `OIDC_CLIENT_REGISTRATION_TOKEN`.

```yaml
mcp:
  enabled: true
  oauth:
    audience: platform
    jwtSeedSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

that secret name is not correct and it may be misleading, so I'd recommend removing this.

> MCP uses the `oauth-platform` Micronaut environment by default. This configures Platform as the OAuth provider and sets the expected audience to `platform`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Authenticating via the `oauth-platform` is the only option for now, so this is providing internal application details that aren't needed to the end user

## Configure the agent backend

> The agent backend needs MySQL, Redis or Valkey, inference provider access, MCP connectivity, and a stable token encryption key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The agent backend needs MySQL, Redis or Valkey, inference provider access, MCP connectivity, and a stable token encryption key. In this example sensitive values (db and redis passwords, token encryption key, etc) are stored in a kubernetes secret named `seqera-ai-secrets`, which needs to already exist before the chart installation, either created manually or with automated secret extraction tools (like External Secrets, not covered in this tutorial).
```

```yaml
agent-backend:
  enabled: true

  database:
    host: mysql.example.com
    name: agent_backend
    username: agent_backend
    existingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
    existingSecretKey: AGENT_BACKEND_DB_PASSWORD

  redis:
    host: redis.example.com
    db: 0
    existingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
    existingSecretKey: AGENT_BACKEND_REDIS_PASSWORD

  tokenEncryptionKeyExistingSecretName: seqera-ai-secrets
  extraEnvVars:
    - name: ORG_CREDITS_ENABLED

>       value: "false"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This value isn't needed by Enterprise users, so we can avoid exposing it.

```

Use the `redis` values block for Redis-compatible services, including Valkey.

The chart derives these runtime URLs from `global.*` values:

| Environment variable | Derived from |
| --- | --- |
| `SEQERA_PLATFORM_URL` | `https://<global.platformExternalDomain>` |
| `SEQERA_PLATFORM_API_URL` | `http://<global.platformServiceAddress>:<global.platformServicePort>` |
| `SEQERA_MCP_URL` | `https://<global.mcpDomain>/mcp` |

> | `ORG_CREDITS_ENABLED` | Set with `agent-backend.extraEnvVars`; use `false` for Enterprise deployments that do not use Seqera Cloud credits. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The helm chart hides these values so we can tweak them in the future without the user needing to worry, so we don't need to expose the env vars.
